[ra2] proofread ch5 and ch7 (#38)
anuket-project/RA2: doc/ref_arch/kubernetes/chapters/chapter05.rst

Securing the Kubernetes Orchestrator
------------------------------------

Kubernetes control plane API communication must be secured using TLS encryption, API authentication (e.g., via LDAP),
etc. Unsecured control plane nodes represent a significant threat; harden them by disabling unused ports and
prohibiting root access.

Security recommendations for the orchestration manager include:

- Cluster management network isolation to protect the control plane and restrict administrative command execution.
  Use network isolation techniques, configure RBAC on the cluster manager, and configure node service accounts using
  the principle of least privilege.
- Enforce access control on registries using unique credentials to limit who can control builds or add images.
- Use TLS for all network access.
- Configure user roles and access levels to ensure segregation of duties.

   - Do not co-locate container and non-container services on the same node.
   - Do not run containers as root.

- Implement multi-factor authentication for all administrative access.
- Harden the configuration using Center for Internet Security (CIS) benchmarks for container runtimes and Kubernetes.

> - Deploy security products providing allowlisting, behavior monitoring, and anomaly detection to prevent malicious

Author: @CsatariGergely can you please allowlist allowlisting?

  define conditions for pod execution, ensuring necessary checks are performed.
- **Kubernetes Node (Worker Node):** A Kubernetes node (worker node) is a physical or virtual server running workloads.
  Unsecured nodes pose a significant threat. Nodes should be hardened by disabling unused ports, prohibiting root
  access, etc.
- **Kubernetes Control Plane Node:** An unsecured control plane node presents a significant threat. These nodes should
  be hardened by disabling unused ports, prohibiting root access, etc.
- **Kubernetes Control Plane:** The Kubernetes control plane orchestrates containers, exposing APIs and interfaces for
  managing their lifecycle. API communication should be secured using mechanisms such as TLS encryption and API
  authentication (e.g., via LDAP).

Security Principles
-------------------

Core principles for securing cloud-native applications include:

- Deploy only secure and trusted applications and code.
- Deploy applications only from validated and verified images.
- Deploy applications only from trusted registries.
- Secure Kubernetes container orchestration with administrative boundaries between tenants:

>    - Use namespaces to establish security boundaries between tenants.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - Use Namespaces to establish security boundaries between tenants.
```

Namespaces here are referring to the Kubernetes object

>    - Create and define cluster network policies.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - Create and define cluster Network Policies.
```

   - Implement cluster-wide pod security policies.
   - Enable audit logging.

>    - Isolate sensitive workloads using namespaces.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - Isolate sensitive workloads using Namespaces.
```

   - Secure tenant metadata access.

- Segment container networks using security zoning and network standards.
- Harden the host OS running the containers.
- Use container-aware runtime defense tools.
- Enable Role-Based Access Control (RBAC).

Node Hardening
--------------

Node Hardening: Securing the Kubernetes Hosts
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Operating systems and applications often have insecure default settings (open ports, enabled services). Kubernetes
nodes must be secured, hardened, and correctly configured according to established security frameworks (e.g., CIS
benchmarks). These benchmarks provide configuration standards and best practices for hardening digital assets.

Restricting Direct Access to Nodes
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Restrict root/administrative access to Kubernetes nodes and avoid direct access for operational tasks (debugging,
troubleshooting, etc.).

Vulnerability Assessment
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Regular vulnerability assessments are crucial for IT risk management. Implement vulnerability scanner tools (e.g.,

> OpenVAS, or other open-source or commercial tools) to identify and mitigate threats and vulnerabilities.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
OpenVAS, or other open source or commercial tools) to identify and mitigate threats and vulnerabilities.
```

Patch Management
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> Implement a robust patch management process to address security vulnerabilities, ensure compliance, maintain uptime,

Author: ```suggestion
A robust patch management process should be implemented to address security vulnerabilities, ensure compliance,
```

> and enable feature enhancements.

Author: ```suggestion
maintain uptime, and enable feature enhancements.
```
